#Command line Practical##Basic Unix Command Line Skill***Note:*** Lines that start with a `$` should be entered on the command line without the  `$`**1. Using terminal in Virtual Box**- Open the Terminal application in the Virtual Machine window
- Set up `Shared Clipboard` in virtual box. Navigate to the `Devices` tab on the menu bar and set it to `bidirectional`. 
**2. Change to `/home/<virtual_box_name>/Desktop/` and make a folder** - `$ cd /home/<virtual_box_name>/Desktop/` - `$ mkdir workshop` This will be where your workshop documents will be stored.- `$ ls` to your folder and everyone else’s- `$ cd workshop` change into your directory**3. Download and Copy the sample data**- Today’s sample data can be downloaded here: 
		
		https://github.com/gonzalezvl/Microbial_Metagenomics_Workshop_UCLA_2015/
- use `cp` to copy the directory `Command_line_practical` and its contents to your new folder `/home/<virtual_box_name>/workshop/`	- *We’re not giving the exact command line here.* Hint: Find the `cp` *option to copy an entire directory*. The format of the `cp` command is`cp [options] source destination` For the destination use `.` to copy to the current folder. Did you use an absolute path or a relative path for source and destination? - `$ ls -l` to confirm that the folder copied successfully. You should see the `Day1` folder.- Error about `…omitting directory…`? Check the cheat sheet for the `cp` option to copy a whole directory.**4. Viewing file contents**- Use `cd` to change the directory to `Command_line_practical` and then change again into `data` which has the sequence files we’ll be using. Use `$ ls -l` to confirm that the two `sequences.fa` and `sequences.fq` are there.- Try all four of these commands to examine the file `sequences.fa`	
	a)	`$ cat sequences.fa`	
	b)	`$ head sequences.fa`	
	c)	`$ tail sequences.fa`	
	d)	`$ less sequences.fa`   (Remember, `q` is quit in less)	
	e)	Use `less` to *find the sequences* that contains the description EAS20_ 8_ 6_ 1_  5_388 (Type `h` in less for help screen, look for “Search forward…” in the “SEARCHING” section.).	
	f)	Use `head` to display the first sequence only (first two lines). Type `$ man head` (or Google) to find the option to limit the number of lines `head` displays (man pages open in `less`, use the arrow keys to navigate and `q` to quit).	
	g)	Use `tail` and wildcard globbing to display the last 10 lines *of the two sequences files* (`sequences.fa` and `sequences.fq`) with one command.**5. Edit a file with `nano`**- Open `sequences.fa` with `nano`- Change some bases in one of the sequences. We'll need this file in the afternoon so keep it valid fasta.- Save and close the file*Remember in* `nano` *shortcuts are at the bottom of the screen and* `^` *is the control key.***6. Create a new text file and delete it**- `$ nano newfile` If the filename doesn’t exist, an empty document will be opened.- Enter some text into the file, save it and exit.- Use one of the text viewing commands we used in Step 4 to view your new file’s contents.- After viewing your file delete it with the `rm` command#Digging deeper (optional for more advanced users):#1.	Want to learn the `vi` editor? Enter the command $ vimtutor on Hydra or your Mac for a tutorial. To exit type `:q`2.	Want to learn the `emacs` editor? Do the emacs tutorial by starting `$ emacs` and then `<control+h>` and then `t`. To exit type `<control+x>` and then `<control+c>`.3.	Using  `$ ls -l` Compare the creation date of the original file and the one you copied. Check the `cp` man page or online resources to learn how to copy the file and preserve the original create date.4.	When you use `less` to view the fasta file, the lines automatically wrap ("fold" in `less` lingo) which can be annoying for fasta files with long sequences. What flag for less will stop this so the lines don't wrap ("chop" in `less` lingo)? Hint: this is an option when starting `less` rather than a command when `less` is already running.######UCLA Microbial Metagenomics Workshop 2015

######****Modified from Hydra Workshop 2015****